### Notes for October 28
## Discovery vs. Presentation
Some questions have been ask about proving "from the left" or "from the right" or "doing both at once". These are really questions about discovering a proof - not how it is eventually presented in your homework or on a quiz.

We discuss this issue when proving the base case of a property about trees below.

## Proofs about trees
Consider the following code from inductive.ml in the Sample Programs directory:
```
type 'a btree = Empty
              | Node of 'a * 'a btree * 'a btree

let t = Node (5,  Node (4,
                    Node (1, Empty, Empty),
                    Empty),
                  Node (2, Empty, Empty)              )

let rec sumTree (t: int btree) : int =
  match t with
  | Empty -> 0
  | Node (v, t1, t2) -> v + sumTree t1 + sumTree t2

let rec mapTree (f: 'a -> 'b) (t: 'a btree) : 'b btree =
  match t with
  | Empty -> Empty
  | Node (v, t1, t2) -> 
          Node (f v, mapTree f t1, mapTree f t2)
      
let rec reduce (b: 'b) (f: 'a -> 'b -> 'b -> 'b)
          (t: 'a btree) : 'b =
    match t with
    | Empty -> b
    | Node (v, t1, t2) -> f v (reduce b f t1)
                              (reduce b f t2)

let sumr (t: int btree) =
  let add3 x y z = x + y + z
  in reduce 0 add3 t
  ```
For any tree t, it is the case that sumTree t = sumr t.


P(t) holds if P(Empty) holds
if P(t1) and P(t2) hold then P(Node(v,t1,t2)) holds

1. sumTree Empty = sumr Empty

Inductive case
2. sumTree (Node (v, t1, t2)) = sumr (Node (v, t1, t2))

The inductive hypothesis lets us assume that

sumTree t1 = sumr t1
sumTree t2 = sumr t2
Proving the base case
sumTree Empty = sumr Empty

"from the left"
  sumTree Empty 
= 0
  by def of sumTree
= reduce 0 add3 Empty
  by def of reduce
= sumr Empty
  by def of sumr
"from the right"
  sumr Empty
= reduce 0 add3 Empty
  by def of sumr
= 0
  by def of reduce
= sumTree Empty
  by def of sumTree
"from both sides"
     sumTree Empty   =   sumr Empty
thus 0               =   sumr Empty, by def of sumTree
thus 0               =   reduce 0 add3 Empty
                                   by def of sumr
thus 0               =   0
                              by def of reduce
thus done since 0 = 0
But all of these are essentially same.

Reading the "from the right" version from the bottom to the top, gives us the "from the left" version.

In the "from both sides" version, we can take the transformation on the right and "turn them upside down" and connect them at the bottom of the transformations on the left.

This gives us the "from the left" version that is preferred.